WARNING! HERE BE SPOILERS!

The cave layout is fixed, but the placement of objects is randomized each game.

You are limitted to carrying 3 items. 
When you return to cave 0 your treasures are automatically deposited there, freeing up your inventory.

However, if an item is safely stored, it won't be available later if it is required to get an additional treasure.

Your flashlight (which is not part of your inventory) has enough light for 200 moves. If it goes out, you die. However, you can get a new battery (see below).

The key is needed to open the lock box (and get the emerald). 
The gun is needed to kill the dragon (and get the black book).
The wand is needed to get the sword from the rocks.
The coins are needed to get a new flashlight battery from the vending machine. 

Note: Getting a new battery, doesn't remove the coins from your inventory (since it only requires 'a' coin and your carrying 'some coins')

Don't take the magic book! Just write down what cave it was in.  

If you enter the magician's cave, he will ask you where his book is. Providing the wrong room is a bad idea.

You'll know you are adjacent to the Magician's cave if you see a 'strange mist'.

After an encounter with the magician, the magician will move to a new room.

There is an elf. After leaving the room with the elf, he will leave food behind.So go back into the room to get it.

There is a cave with the danger sign.  Any time you enter this room, there is a 1 in 5 chance it will collapse on you. 

If you enter the cave with the pirate, he will take your treasures. These are removed from the game, rendering it unwinnable.

There are 3 pits.   

There is an invisible man looking for his invisible dog.

To locate the invisible dog, write down the numbers of caves where you hear barking.  The cave they are all adjacent to is the one with the dog.

Even if you just write down the possible rooms with the dog, this will help narrow down the choices for you when you encounter the invisible man. 

Encounters with the invisible man are randomly generated.

Earthquakes will redistribute the treasures in the cave.

As in 'Hunt the Wumpus' there are superbats.  The bats appears randomly (1 in 200 chance) and may drop in any other cave.  Any objects you are carrying will be randomly redistributed to empty rooms.

There are >>Danger<< signs. These surround a particular room where cave-ins may occur.  The odds of the room collapsing on you when you are in that room are 1 in 5.
